---
layout: PR-FINAL
published: true
artist: "Pacific Standard Time LA/LA:"
show: "Video Art in Latin America "
show-dates: "September 17 &mdash; December 16, 2017
"
contact-email: makayla
photo-credit: "Image Credit: P&aacute;vel Aguilar, <em>Retransmisi&oacute;n</em> (Retransmission), 2011. Color video. Courtesy P&aacute;vel Aguilar."
link-onsite: 'http://laxart.org/exhibitions/view/pacific-standard-time-lala-video-art-in-latin-america/'
image-link: 'https://laxart-media.s3.amazonaws.com/images/XtbeZuhtRbCjMOxCg2c30w.jpg'
category: press
orientation: '100'
---
Opening Reception: Sunday, September 17, 4&mdash;7pm

Organized by <b>LAXART</b> in collaboration with the <b>Getty  Research Institute</b> (GRI) as part of the Getty&rsquo;s city-wide art initiative Pacific Standard Time: LA/LA, <b>Video Art in Latin America</b> surveys groundbreaking achievements and important thematic tendencies in Latin American video art from the 1960s until today. The exhibition will present more than 60 works of video art from Latin America, many never before seen in the United States.

The emergence of video art in Latin America is marked by staggered and multiple points of development across more than a dozen artistic centers over a period of more than 25 years. The earliest experiments with video in Latin America began in Argentina and Brazil in the 60s and 70s, respectively. In the late 1970s artists in Colombia, Mexico, and Puerto Rico began to use video. Artists in Chile, Cuba, and Uruguay took up the medium in the 1980s and the 1990s and 2000s saw video art movements emerging in Ecuador, Guatemala, and Costa Rica.
At LAXART, visitors will encounter several immersive video art installations as well as three galleries featuring single channel videos arranged in six thematic programs which include: The Organic Line; Defiant Bodies; States of Crisis; Economies of Labor; Borders and Migrations; Memory and Forgetting. An important feature of the exhibition is a specially curated library adjacent to the gallery spaces. This publicly accessible library will function as a Video in Latin American Art study room featuring dozens of books on the subject, including rare and out-of-print volumes.

Opening September 15, 2017, Pacific Standard Time: LA/LA is a far-reaching and ambitious exploration of Latin American and Latino art in dialogue with Los Angeles. Led by the Getty, Pacific Standard Time: LA/LA is the latest collaborative effort from arts institutions across Southern California, featuring more than 70 exhibitions exploring wide-ranging aspects of Latin American and Latino arts and culture.

This exhibition is curated by Glenn Phillips and Elena Shtromberg.

Pacific Standard Time is an initiative of the Getty with art institutions across Southern California. The presenting sponsor is Bank of America.
Major support for this exhibition is provided through a grant from the Getty Foundation. This exhibition is organized in collaboration with the Getty Research Institute.

This program is also presented with the support of the City of West Hollywood’s WeHo Arts program. For more information, please visit <a href="http://www.weho.org/arts">www.weho.org/arts</a> or follow via social media <a href="https://twitter.com/WeHoArts">@WeHoArts</a>.
