---
layout: PR-FINAL
published: true
artist: MARY ELLEN CARROLL
show: "PERFORMANCE <br>
No.9: My death is pending… because"
show-dates: "Saturday, July 1,  5pm- 10 pm<br>
At Irwindale Speedway<br>500 Speedway Dr, Irwindale, CA 91706
"
contact-email: press
photo-credit: ""
link-onsite: 'http://laxart.org/events/view/conversation-on-destruction-and-demolition-mary-ellen-carroll-in-conversation-with-catherine-taft/'
image-link: 'https://laxart-media.s3.amazonaws.com/images/UoKboAG5QnKBDTQFZ3Av4g.png'
category: press
orientation: '80'
---
Tickets are available through <a href="https://tix.extremetix.com/webtix/3619/event/70045?salesRef=">Irwindale Speedway</a>.


This performance is a part of an ongoing series of artworks that Mary Ellen Carroll started in 1986. For *No.9*, Carroll will participate in a demolition derby and drive the 1985 Buick Riviera that she previously crashed into the Staatliches Museum für Völkerkunde in Munich, Germany in 2005 for the performance *Late*. Carroll’s series of works revolving around this Buick emerged from a Rube Goldberg/stream-of-consciousness methodology—a conceptual process where something simple is extracted from a set of complex ideas that continue until the process comes to a complete stop. The demolition derby is that full stop.

For more information and to support the performance and related projects, please follow <a href="https://www.kickstarter.com/projects/510980453/no-9a-performance-within-a-demolition-derby-in-la?ref=thanks_share">this link</a>

**Mary Ellen Carroll/MEC, studios** is a New York City based conceptual artist and design studio. Carroll’s work occupies the disciplines of architecture/design and public policy, writing, performance and film. Her ongoing projects, *The Circle Game* in Dubai, *prototype 180.org* and *PUBLIC UTILITY 2.0* for example, stand at the intersection of performance, architecture, public policy, and social justice. Carroll frequently works with unsuspecting materials that range from public policy and land use or the lack thereof in Houston, as in the case with *prototype 180*. Or, the national and non-visible real estate of radio frequency for *Public Utility 2.0*  as a form of 21st century work of land art. Teaching, lecturing and public presentations in architecture and land use policy are an important part of Carroll’s work and educational institutions have included architecture and public policy programs at Rice University in Houston, Columbia University in New York, University of California at Irvine, Yale University, Pusan National University, Busan, South Korea and the DIA Art Foundation amongst others. Carroll has received numerous awards and honors, and her work is in public and private collections internationally. She is represented by Galerie Hubert Winter in Vienna, Austria. Carroll has been awarded the IASPIS fellowship by the Swedish Government for 2017.
