---
layout: 'PR-FINAL'
published: 'true'
artist: 'Gabriela Torres Olivares
'
show: 'Enfermario <Br>
(trans. Jennifer Donovan)'
show-dates: 'June 9th &mdash; July 15, 2017<br>Opening Reception, June 9th 6&mdash;9pm<br>With Special Performance of Ritual Piano Destruction Concert, performed by the artist at 7:30pm
'
contact-email: 'info'
photo-credit: " "
link-onsite: 'http://laxart.org/events/view/les-figues-press-book-launch-gabriela-torres-olivares-ienfermarioi/'
image-link: 'https://laxart-media.s3.amazonaws.com/images/2YQb9VE1RXOPVFkjRiw3ew.jpg'
category: 'press'
orientation: '80'
---
Featuring:  author Gabriela Torres Olivares in conversation with translator Jennifer Donovan and author Janet Sarbanes

LAXART is proud to host Les Figues Press for the launch of *Enfermario* by Gabriela Torres Olivares, translated by Jennifer Donovan. Olivares was born in Monterrey, México. She is the author of three collections of short stories: *Enfermario* (2010), which *Reforma* named as one of the Best Books of 2010; *Incompletario* (2007); and *Están Muertos* (2004). Her work has appeared in numerous anthologies and periodicals, including *Vice*, *Pic-Nic*, *Playboy*, and *Luvina*. She received a 2015-16 grant from the National Fund for Culture and Arts to complete a novel.

Jennifer Donovan is an interdisciplinary artist based in the Tijuana-San Diego border. Her work addresses the ontology of boundaries and liminal spaces through presence/absence phenomena. She works between literary (writing and translation) and visual practices to grapple with power relationships embedded in bodies, language, and geography: borders that each of us constantly negotiates.

Janet Sarbanes is the author of the recently released and highly acclaimed short story collection The Protester Has Been Released (C & R Press, 2017). Her previous collection, Army of One(Otis Books | Seismicity Editions, 2008) was hailed by BOMB as a "stingingly funny fiction debut." Recent short fiction appears in Black Clock, P- Queue, Entropy and North Dakota Quarterly. She lives in Los Angeles and teaches in the MFA Creative Writing Program at CalArts.
